No demo account?Register Now!

Experience our New POEMS Mobile 3 Trading App!Available for download on App Store and Google Play!

For more information, click here

We appreciate your feedback.

Your experience on our website is important to us. Please let us know how you feel about our website:

Table of Contents

If investments didn’t yield returns, why would anyone take the chance? Returns can be examined in a variety of ways.

Comparing the investment’s final value to its initial primary value, cumulative returns examine its return over a longer time frame. It serves largely as a method of analyzing an investment’s overall performance over time.

The total return produced by an investment over a predetermined period is known as the cumulative return. It is the total gain or loss on investment throughout time, regardless of the time involved.

The overall change in the investment’s price over a predetermined period is the cumulative return; this is a total return, not an annualized return. Reinvested dividends or capital gains impact an investment’s cumulative return.

This kind of return takes profits and losses from the period into account and bases the final total on the change in value from the start to the end of the same period. A cumulative return is typically shown as a percentage rather than a monetary value.

Calculating the profit or loss over the purchase price makes it simple to determine the cumulative return of an asset that does not pay interest or dividends. That can be effective with assets like growthstocksand precious metals that don’t pay dividends. The cumulative return can be computed using the raw closing price.

The cumulative return of all assets can be easily calculated using the adjusted closing price. This covers investments like dividend-paying equities and bonds that pay interest. The adjusted closing price considers the impact of interest, dividends, stock splits, and other price changes on the asset. Therefore, it is possible to calculate the cumulative return by utilizing the security’s first adjusted closing price as the purchase price.

The cumulative return over both periods isRcif the standard return over one period is R1 and R2 if the standard return over a second period,

Rc is equal to (1 + R1)(1 + R2) – 1

The total return is another name for the cumulative return.

Although there are ways to calculate additive cumulative returns, the cumulative return, as described here, is not additive across sub-portfolios.

When the cumulative rate of return is added to this equation, it becomes: (1 + RA) n = 1 + RC. Where n is the number of years taken into account in the computation of RC, RC is the cumulative rate of return, and RA is the annualized rate of return.

Using the above example, we can deduce that n = 5 and RC = 0.4. The result of fiddling with the equation is RA = [(1 + RC) (1/n)]. -1. Calculators for these mathematical issues can be found online; in this example, the yearly rate of return is 0.6961, or 6.96 percent. This is less than the inaccurate 8 percent that you would have estimated using basic math.

Using the annual compounded return as a starting point, you can compare the cumulative return with other potential investments. This can aid in your decision-making over whether to keep your money where it is currently invested or move it to a location with higher returns.

To better understand cumulative total return, let’s look at the following example:

Suppose you paid $10,000 for 100 shares of stock A five years ago. Your shares of stock are now worth $14,000, giving you a $4,000 increase over five years. Cumulative return is calculated as ($4,000 gain) / ($10,000 original investment) = 0.4 or 40%.

Your investment has generated a total return of 40% over the past five years. To determine which assets outperformed the others, you may compare this figure to the cumulative returns on other investments over five years. However, unless you have a straightforward loan that doesn’t compound interest, you can’t divide this number by five to achieve an annual compound return of (0.4 / 5) = 0.08, or 8 percent.

The investor will use the following calculation to determine the total return rate (which is required to get the annualized return): Starting value = (ending value – beginning value)

Most investors consider an average annual return of 10% or above to be a decent ROI forlong-term stock market investments.

There are a few key differences between annualized returns and cumulative returns.

The simple cumulative daily return is determined by multiplying the daily percentage change by the cumulative factor.

The cumulative total return is an investment’s total return over time. This includes both the initial investment and any subsequent reinvestments. It is a measure of the overall performance of an investment.

The cumulative total return is significant because it provides a more accurate picture of an investment’s true return. It takes into account not only the initial investment but also any reinvestments that have been made. This makes it a more accurate measure of the investment’s overall performance.

The cumulative total return is a useful tool for investors because it allows them to compare the performance of different investments. It is also helpful in determining an investment portfolio’s overall risk and return.

Margin Trading

Bond Trading

Securities Lending

Supplementary Retirement Scheme

Money Market Funds

REITs ETF

Singapore Stocks

Opening Investment Account

Forex Trading

Option Trading

CFDs

Buying Unit Trusts

Treasury Bonds

Robo Advisor

Online Investing

Sti components

Indices

Bond screener

Market Watch

Morning Note

Thematic portfolio

Economic Calender

Market Journal

Money Talk

Market Call

Stock Research

Fund screener

Etf screener

Investment Seminars

FAQs

SGX

PSE

ASX

KRX

SET

BIST

HNX

HOSE

NYSE

HKX

IDX

LSE

TWSE

FWB

TSE

NYSE

NASDAQ

US Asian Hours

BURSA

China A Shares

China B Shares

Euronext Paris

Euronext Lisbon

Euronext Amsterdam

Search results for:

Table of Contents

Weekly Updates 24/2/25 – 28/2/25

This weekly update is designed to help you stay informed and relate economic and company...

Weekly Updates 17/2/25 – 21/2/25

This weekly update is designed to help you stay informed and relate economic and company...

Weekly Updates 10/2/25 – 14/2/25

This weekly update is designed to help you stay informed and relate economic and company...

Unveiling Tencent: Inside the Tech Giant Shaping China’s Digital Future

Did you know that Tencent Holdings owns a stake in the developer behind 2024’s blockbuster...

CFDs

Weekly Updates 3/2/25 – 7/2/25

This weekly update is designed to help you stay informed and relate economic and company...

Weekly Updates 27/1/25 – 31/1/25

This weekly update is designed to help you stay informed and relate economic and company...

A Modern Guide to Mastering The Forex Market

The world of foreign exchange (FX) has evolved significantly over the years. Technological advancements and...

CFDsForex/Futures

Dive into Europe: New Markets, New Gains!

Table of contents Introduction to Euronext Benefits of Trading on Euronext Popular Trading Counters Euronext...

ETFsStocks

Join Events & Seminars

Learn best practices and latest market outlook from experts and special guests

Hear & Ask our Experts

Join live weekly market calls

Read Popular News & Reports, Technical Pulses

at www.stocksbnb.com

Subscribe to our YouTube Channel

New video every week

Follow us

DownloadPOEMS 3 App

Scan the QR code to download APP.

Call Back!

Chat with us!

Need Assistance? Share your Details and we’ll get back to you

This is provided to you for general information only and does not constitute a recommendation, an offer or solicitation to buy or sell the investment product mentioned. It does not have any regard to your specific investment objectives, financial situation or any of your particular needs. Accordingly, no warranty whatsoever is given and no liability whatsoever is accepted for any loss arising whether directly or indirectly as a result of your acting based on this information.

Investments are subject to investment risks including the possible loss of the principal amount invested. Unit trusts distributed by Phillip Securities Pte Ltd (“PSPL”) are not obligations of, deposits in, or guaranteed by, PSPL or any of its affiliates.

The value of the units in any fund and the income from them may fall as well as rise. Past performance figures as well as any projection or forecast used in this publication are not necessarily indicative of future or likely performance of any unit trust. You should read the prospectus and product highlights sheet before deciding to subscribe for units in the respective fund. A copy of the prospectus can be obtained from the issuer or PSPL, or online athttps://www.poems.com.sg/fund-finder/phillip-money-market-fund-534010/

You may wish to obtain advice from a qualified financial adviser, pursuant to a separate engagement, before making a commitment to purchase any of the investment products mentioned herein. In the event that you choose not to obtain advice from a qualified financial adviser, you should assess and consider whether the investment product is suitable for you before proceeding to invest and we do not offer any advice in this regard unless mandated to do so by way of a separate engagement.

This advertisement has not been reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

This material is provided by Phillip Capital Management (S) Ltd (“PCM”) for general information only and does not constitute a recommendation, an offer to sell, or a solicitation of any offer to invest in any of the exchange-traded fund (“ETF”) or the unit trust (“Products”) mentioned herein. It does not have any regard to your specific investment objectives, financial situation and any of your particular needs. You should read the Prospectus and the accompanying Product Highlights Sheet (“PHS”) for key features, key risks and other important information of the Products and obtain advice from a financial adviser (“FA“) pursuant to a separate engagement before making a commitment to invest in the Products. In the event that you choose not to obtain advice from a FA, you should assess whether the Products are suitable for you before proceeding to invest. A copy of the Prospectus and PHS are available from PCM, any of its Participating Dealers (“PDs“) for the ETF, or any of its authorised distributors for the unit trust managed by PCM.

An ETF is not like a typical unit trust as the units of the ETF (the “Units“) are to be listed and traded like any share on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”). Listing on the SGX-ST does not guarantee a liquid market for the Units which may be traded at prices above or below its NAV or may be suspended or delisted. Investors may buy or sell the Units on SGX-ST when it is listed. Investors cannot create or redeem Units directly with PCM and have no rights to request PCM to redeem or purchase their Units. Creation and redemption of Units are through PDs if investors are clients of the PDs, who have no obligation to agree to create or redeem Units on behalf of any investor and may impose terms and conditions in connection with such creation or redemption orders. Please refer to the Prospectus of the ETF for more details.

Investments are subject to investment risks including the possible loss of the principal amount invested. The purchase of a unit in a fund is not the same as placing your money on deposit with a bank or deposit-taking company. There is no guarantee as to the amount of capital invested or return received. The value of the units and the income accruing to the units may fall or rise. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of the future or likely performance of the Products. There can be no assurance that investment objectives will be achieved.

Where applicable, fund(s) may invest in financial derivatives and/or participate in securities lending and repurchase transactions for the purpose of hedging and/or efficient portfolio management, subject to the relevant regulatory requirements. PCM reserves the discretion to determine if currency exposure should be hedged actively, passively or not at all, in the best interest of the Products.

The regular dividend distributions, out of either income and/or capital, are not guaranteed and subject to PCM’s discretion. Past payout yields and payments do not represent future payout yields and payments. Such dividend distributions will reduce the available capital for reinvestment and may result in an immediate decrease in the net asset value (“NAV”) of the Products. Please refer to <www.phillipfunds.com> for more information in relation to the dividend distributions.

The information provided herein may be obtained or compiled from public and/or third party sources that PCM has no reason to believe are unreliable. Any opinion or view herein is an expression of belief of the individual author or the indicated source (as applicable) only. PCM makes no representation or warranty that such information is accurate, complete, verified or should be relied upon as such. The information does not constitute, and should not be used as a substitute for tax, legal or investment advice.

The information herein are not for any person in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or availability for use would contravene any applicable law or regulation or would subject PCM to any registration or licensing requirement in such jurisdiction or country. The Products is not offered to U.S. Persons. PhillipCapital Group of Companies, including PCM, their affiliates and/or their officers, directors and/or employees may own or have positions in the Products. Any member of the PhillipCapital Group of Companies may have acted upon or used the information, analyses and opinions herein before they have been published.

This advertisement has not been reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.

Phillip Capital Management (S) Ltd(Co. Reg. No. 199905233W)250 North Bridge Road #06-00, Raffles City Tower ,Singapore 179101Tel: (65) 6230 8133 Fax: (65) 65383066 www.phillipfunds.com

